---
title: Aikido Summer Camp
subtitle: Terrible at the time, but now a favourite memory
category: travel
cover: cover.jpeg
---

It’s traditional for Japanese clubs to have one or more camps during the year where all the club
members go away somewhere and spend a few days focusing on club activities. 

In the Aikido club this means going to Nagano prefecture (a 4-hour bus ride away from Tokyo),
staying in a ryokan (traditional inn) and training upwards of 6 hours a day for five days. 

But first, a small diversion: While downloading camp photos from the club camera, I also came across
a whole lot of photos taken when we did Suica-wari earlier in the year. So here they are (finally). 

![Holding the sword the wrong way up was not a good start …](1.jpeg)

![… but eventually I got the hang of it!](2.jpeg)

![It wasn’t me that broke it, but yeah. That’s how badass we are.](3.jpeg)

![Slightly bedraggled, but mostly triumphant](4.jpeg)

Now, fast forward a month or so to the camp itself. 

### Location

We trained in a gym rather than a dojo, which meant real tatami rather than springy mats on the
floor. Tatami is surprisingly hard (well … hard compared to foam) so after 2000+ forward rolls we
were all quite scraped and bruised! 

![We had to take all the mats out of storage and lay them out ourselves — as well as being hard, tatami is surprisingly heavy!](5.jpeg)

### Training days

Days 2, 3, 5 and 6 all started with 6am training. This involved running up and down hills, with
occasional stops to do crunches and kubi-age (neck training). Already pretty exhausting, especially
when we hadn’t had breakfast yet. 

The food was worth waiting for though — since we were staying in a sort of Japanese inn it was both
tasty and plentiful. Apparently it’s a custom for senior club members to fill the rice bowls of the
juniors and the duty of the juniors to eat whatever is put in front of them. This meant we all got
either a lot of rice (from the kind seniors) or a vast amount of rice (from the other seniors)! 

After breakfast was morning training — 45 minutes of fitness work (forward rolls, squats, ushiro-uke
backward breakfalls or tobi-uke flying breakfalls) followed by an hour and a bit of practicing
various techniques. We then had a short break before lunch (well, everyone else had a short break
while we first years set out lunch) followed by more training in the afternoon. 

After another short break it was dinner time. I should mention that before starting each meal we
were required to sit in seiza (Japanese-style kneeling, which is particularly hard on the knees and
calves) until told otherwise by the club captain. Usually we were allowed to stop kneeling and sit
comfortably during the meal, but during the third and fourth days (when we played host to
Endo-sensei, the chief instructor of our Aikido style) we had to stay in seiza for the entire meal.
Thankfully it’s the job of first years to get up occasionally and pour tea for the seniors, thus
giving our legs a little time to recover but it was still quite a sore experience! 

After dinner we usually had a meeting of some sort and then (once we’d finished our allocated
housekeeping tasks) it was time for bed. And another 5am wakeup call. 

You may get the impression that I didn’t enjoy this much, especially if you know how poor I am at
any sort of sustained physical activity. You would be right. However, I not only survived but
managed to finish all the training without any serious injuries, so I’ve definitely discovered that
my physical limits are a lot further than I thought! I know it’s nowhere near as hard as (for
example) an army boot camp, but to me it feels like a real achievement. 

![This is yet another type of training —basically, the juniors are thrown by the seniors a set number of times (maybe a hundred, maybe more)](6.jpeg)

![The final time we did that training, however, we were allowed to make the seniors do whatever we liked instead of the final throw. Some people did arm wrestling, dancing or thumb wars …](7.jpeg)

![I decided to teach them some muscle exercises I find fun — some seniors were annoyingly good at them, but others were suitably shocked!](8.jpeg)

### Rest day

Thankfully, not every day was a training day. On the fourth day (the middle one) we had a sort of
rest day, which was actually great fun. We still had to get up at 5, but we did stretches instead of
training. We still had a morning training session with Endo-sensei, but instead of afternoon
training we visited hot springs. Sinking into an outdoor hot spring after two days of training has
to be one of the most relaxing experiences I’ve ever had. 

![Chatting and drinking milky coffee (apparently the traditional thing to have after visiting hot springs)](9.jpeg)

![In the bus on the way back — no idea what I was concentrating so hard on, but it makes for a cool photo!](10.jpeg)

![We also bought souvenirs, and someone thought it would be a great idea to get a couple of foam swords. Half an hour later one was broken and someone had almost fallen down the stairs being chased with the other one](11.jpeg)

It’s days like this when the barrier between seniors and juniors partially breaks down and everyone
becomes rather more equal, but the first year boys weren’t let off the hook entirely. We were
surprised by a “luggage check” in the evening during which the seniors ruthlessly searched through
our bags and “found” various (surprisingly explicit) items. With some of the quickest thinking I’ve
ever done in Japanese, I managed to explain that the reason an adult DVD was mysteriously discovered
in my luggage was that I wanted to improve my knowledge of Japanese culture. It might not sound like
much, but it’s probably the first genuine (and deliberate) joke I’ve made in a second language! 

![This translates to “Box for enjoying your night”. I don’t know what it contains, but I can hazard a guess …](12.jpeg)

A couple more things happened that evening … 

![Firstly, the second year students turned the training hall into a haunted house completed with atomic bomb survivor, Japanese monsters, horror movie references and an alien](13.jpeg)

![Secondly, each first year had to sing the school song, solo, from memory. This is me trying frantically to remember the words …](14.jpeg)

Weird things 

- It’s strange how much your mind impacts your physical performance. I was shocked when we did forward
  roll training twice in one day and could barely do any the second time, but the next time I knew
  it was a possibility, mentally prepared, and ended up doing a whole lot better. Interesting for me
  to discover such a radical example of mind over matter, especially since without thinking I wrote
  that as my goal for the camp … 
- Japanese guys rarely seem to smile in photos because “it looks cooler” to have a straight face. I
  don’t agree. 
- Endo-sensei comes across as quite a friendly person (to me) but everyone else in the club seems
  mortally afraid of him. Maybe it’s just because I’m a foreigner. Maybe his gentle corrections
  sound a lot harsher if you understand the nuances of Japanese. But it still seems bad for learning
  if everyone is too scared to ask questions 
